good afternoon so I come before you I
hail originally from the southeast of
the United States and as a southerner I
can tell you that culturally we are
long-winded and so lightning talks
do not come naturally to me but I have
traveled thousands of miles casting off
my cultural proclivities so that I can
come to you as an ambassador and the
reason I come here as an ambassador is
to tell you that in the research world
we have data problems a lot of them and
so I'm going to demonstrate one use case
and wanting a couple of examples of why
and what kind of data problems we have
so I work at the University of Arizona
we're on the assistant director of
research computing that's a big fancy
title that basically just says I am the
bridge between researchers and computing
resources coders infrastructure
developers all those sort of people so
just at the University of Arizona we
have one example so the bio 5 Institute
is an interdisciplinary group it
produces lots and lots of data I work at
the HBC group which is different place
they have data up here we have a giant
high performance computer two of them
actually buying a third as we took as we
speak people move data from all over the
campus here for us to compute on it then
they often move it back but the very
first problem that creates is the second
you move it to some other storage system
now those two data sets are out of link
they're out of sync and when you move it
back it's quite hard to tell whether
something's happened to it
and if so what and what has changed in
all kinds of things if you throw in the
fact that we have a library which is in
a different part of the campus that has
a long-term data repository now you have
three sets if you share it with another
collaborator somewhere else on campus
you know how four sets and the problem
gets bigger and bigger and bigger so if
we zoom out a little bit and leave
campus going with the space theme of
this ipfs camp we actually have
telescopes distributed all over and
around Tucson one of them is the Vatican
telescope and I'm pretty sure that's
owned by the Pope so that's kind of fun
and then each of these produce terabytes
and terabytes of data they move them all
over the place and if you zoom out even
a little bit further we have a su in
Phoenix
and they have a number of different
hospitals that produce data they share
those back with us and there's also an
HPC Center in Tempe and where ASU is
located
we have NAU Northern Arizona University
they have their own HPC system and
storage they do their own analyses and
share them with all of us
and we have all kinds of governmental
agencies AG extension agencies that
produce data from agricultural fields so
if we really zoom out and talk about the
event horizon telescope project then we
have telescopes all over the world so
this was a project that literally used
telescopes in the southern pole all the
way the northern Pole pretty much the
diameter of the earth and they pointed
all of these telescopes at the center of
our galaxy to see a black hole and so
they had you did all this distributed
data had to wind up at places to
actually do analysis and that becomes a
really huge problem because now you have
petabytes of data that are all needing
to be synced up and the only way that we
could solve that problem there's a
little bit of lag is this so from the
South Pole there are hard drives in
metal boxes that went into the
telescopes they pulled those as they
were collecting data for these black
holes they put them in shipping crates
yes shipping crates loaded on the back
of trucks distributed all over the world
and put them into Germany into MIT and a
couple of other places to process the
data and then unpack them and started
sticking them into computers to actually
you know try to figure this problem out
so big problems with data and these
images are courtesy of the event horizon
telescope project and a colleague and
dare I say friend CK John so if you're
watching thanks buddy so this is the
image that came back from all that data
so why should you care about helping
researchers well if you can help people
don't move this data round we can do the
impossible and we can see the unseen and
I think that's a reason to do anything
frankly so I'm actually heading up a
group or a project it's a structured
experiment to benchmark different
Vidia protocols because i've already
drank the kool-aid I believe in the
distributed wedge now I need the
kool-aid powder mix from you guys I'm
gonna go back to the researchers and say
drink this kool-aid right so please come
by help out I have an open science
framework project with an experimental
design I'm looking for any technology is
there any ways to benchmark these
protocols please come by and talk to me
I would love to talk to you thank you